RUSH: This is what Destiny
intended from the moment
it entered the star system.
YOUNG: That ship
is the best chance
we have of getting home.
Are we done?
We'll never be done.
WRAY: You shouldn't have
left him on the planet.
YOUNG: You think
I don't know that?
CHLOE: Everyone thinks
we're safe.
They think that
they'll never
find us again.
Why did you take
one of our people
prisoner?
(VOCALIZES)
CHLOE: We're not safe,
are we?
TELFORD: They're coming!
Who's coming?
Lucian Alliance.
They're coming
to take Destiny.
RUSH: There's only one way
this is going to end
if we wait.
YOUNG: I'm not
surrendering this ship.
We need to kill them all.
VARRO: Everyone
except the doctors.
And Lieutenant Johansen.
JOHANSEN: Remember
that planet that
we stopped at?
They have my baby.
TELFORD: You have no idea
what it's like to remember
things you've done that...
You weren't yourself.
SCOTT: Riley is not
going to make it, sir.
GLORIA: You found
the keys to controlling
all Destiny's systems.
And you're not
going to tell
anyone, are you?
VOLKER: There's
an object out there.
YOUNG: What is it?
We're not sure,
but we're about
to find out.
We're headed
straight for it.
Do we know
what it is?
Not yet.
Brody.
Colonel.
Ready weapons.
I don't think
that'll be necessary.
It's a ship.
It looks like Destiny.
It's got to be
of Ancient design.
Colonel, this is Brody.
Go ahead.
We're not slowing down.
We're on a collision course.
Ready main weapon.
We're going to hit it.
No, no,
we're not going to hit it.
We're going to dock with it.
You got any more
predictions?
Yeah. I suspect that,
very shortly
you'll be
assembling a team
to send over there.
YOUNG: How did you know
we were going to dock?
Call it a hunch.
Given the second ship's
similarity in design,
our calculated approach,
well, I thought it was
rather obvious, really.
So, what's happening here?
Destiny is exchanging data
with the seed ship.
One of many traveling
well ahead of Destiny,
seeding planets
with stargates,
gathering information.
This one obviously experienced
some sort of system failure,
allowing us to
catch up with it.
YOUNG: What kind of data?
Difficult to say
at the moment.
It may take a while
to translate.
Well, then, you'd
better get started.
RUSH: Well, there's plenty
of time for that later.
For now, this is
a fantastic opportunity,
and I want to explore it.
No, I'm sure you do,
but I need you here.
I need to know what
kind of information
we're receiving.
No countdown clock.
Yeah, I figure Destiny's
going to give us as long
as it takes.
And how long is that?
Given the amount of data
and the rate of transfer,
I'd guess at least
two hours.
Okay. Brody, Volker,
you are on the away team.
You have two hours.
Make it quick.
(RUSH SCOFFS)
With all due respect
to Brody and Volker...
They'll be fine.
Call it a hunch.
TELFORD: Camile.
I thought you were
being debriefed.
Homeworld Command can wait.
What's going on with this
seed ship?
Some sort of
data transfer's
been initiated.
In the meantime,
Colonel Young is sending
a team over to investigate.
David...
SCOTT ON RADIO: All right,
Colonel, we are good to go.
Stand by.
SCOTT: Heading in.
Okay, we are
at the airlock.
ELI ON RADIO: Life support
is active over there,
so you have a go.
Right.
(DOOR CREAKING)
That ship's older than
Destiny and could be
in pretty bad shape.
Proceed with caution,
Lieutenant.
Yes, sir.
ELI: It's incredible.
Okay, maybe not as incredible
as checking out a seed ship,
but still,
pretty damned incredible.
There's no telling
what kind of information
we're getting here.
It could be anything,
from Ancient history
to details of
the Destiny's mission.
Where are you going?
The bathroom.
Is that all right?
Hey. T.J.
There you are.
Oh, God,
I was supposed to meet you
in the infirmary, wasn't I?
About 20 minutes ago.
Sorry.
Are you okay?
Yeah.
You sure?
After everything
that's happened to you...
Let's not
do this here, okay?
Okay, but look,
you really should
talk to someone.
And I'm not saying
that it has to be me.
If there's someone else
you'd feel more
comfortable confiding in...
It's not that.
Then why aren't you...
Because there's nothing
to talk about, Chloe.
Look, I lost my baby.
And now maybe
she's in a better place.
And maybe
it's for the best.
You can't mean that.
Let's go to the infirmary
and I'll take a look
at your leg wound.
There is no leg wound.
That's what I was
coming by to tell you.
It's almost
completely healed.
How is that possible?
I don't know.
BRODY: We'd cover
a lot more ground
if we split up.
You heard the colonel.
"Proceed with caution."
We are not splitting up.
Fine. Then let's
at least turn the Kino
on search mode.
Yeah, knock yourself out.
GLORIA: A fascinating
bit of information.
Of course you know
what this means.
We may have a way
of getting home.
But you're not going to
tell them that, are you?
Well, I'm sure
they'll figure it out
on their own.
And if they don't?
GREER: Well, well, well.
What do we have here?
Ship's control center,
I'm guessing.
Huh. And I was gonna go
with rec room.
(SYSTEM POWERING UP)
Hey, what did
the colonel say?
He said,
"You've got two hours.
Make it fast."
Colonel, this is Scott.
Go ahead.
We've found
what appears to be
the ship's control center.
Brody and Dr. Volker
are bringing systems
online for study.
Keep me updated.
Where the hell were you?
I stopped by the mess.
Well, I tried
radioing you.
Yeah, I know.
Everett, can I talk
to you for a second?
Sure.
You sent a team over?
Yeah.
Without bothering
to run it by me?
Last time I checked,
I was the commanding
officer of this ship.
I'm not disputing that...
Meaning, I don't have to run
anything by you
or anyone else,
for that matter.
Look, I don't have
a problem with
sending a team over.
I'd just appreciate
being kept in the loop.
Let me help.
I don't need your help.
Like hell you don't.
David...
Damn it, Everett...
You've been
going this alone
since the incursion,
and it's been
taking a toll.
When are you going to
realize that this isn't
just about you?
You have a responsibility
to the people on board
this ship
and lately,
you haven't been
up to the task.
Now you either shape up
or step back.
You're tired, I get it.
Let me help.
Oh, you're a persistent
son of a bitch.
Hey, you saved my life.
I had to kill you
to do it.
And I'm willing to do
the same for you.
Okay. They've found
what looks to be
the ship's control center
and they're bringing
systems online.
What's the game plan?
The game plan
is just get as much
information as we can
before our time runs out.
(SYSTEM WHIRRING)
Colonel, I hear
we've docked
with a seed ship.
That's right.
I'd like to
offer my help.
I have some understanding
of Ancient technology...
No, thank you.
But I can be of
some assistance...
I said no.
I'm not letting you
or your people
anywhere near that ship.
You wanted
to see me?
I want to know how long
you plan on keeping us
locked up?
I didn't really
have a plan.
I just thought
I'd play it by ear,
see how things go.
We've been cooperative
with your Homeworld Command,
providing them
with information on
the Alliance as requested.
You had no choice.
It was either that
or get left behind on
some god-forsaken planet.
We took down Dannic
and gave you back
control of this ship.
To save your own lives.
Ours weren't
the only ones at risk,
and if you remember,
I stepped in and
prevented the execution
of all military personnel
aboard Destiny,
including you.
I think we were
better use to you alive.
But for what it's worth,
I thank you.
(STAMPS FOOT)
We can't spend the rest
of our days here on
this ship as prisoners.
Should've thought about that
before you attacked us.
The way I see it,
it could've gotten a hell
of a lot worse for you.
Colonel,
just tell me,
what do we have to do
to earn our freedom?
Prove to me that
you're not a threat.
And how do we do that?
I don't think you can.
I'm not your enemy anymore.
Neither are my people!
I think you know that.
Told you.
SCOTT: Okay,
so making any progress?
Sure.
All right, then maybe
Sergeant Greer and I
will take
a little look around.
Knock yourselves out.
Hey, am I reading
this right?
If you have to ask,
my guess would be no.
Seriously. Check out
these power readings.
Oh, my God. Dr. Rush,
you'd better check this out.
YOUNG: It was you,
wasn't it?
You're the one
who told the prisoners
about the seed ship?
Any major developments
aboard Destiny concern
them as well.
They had a right to know.
Oh, damn it, Camile,
they're prisoners.
They don't have any rights.
Oh, I can't believe
what I'm hearing.
They attacked the ship,
they threatened us.
And now we have
to live with them.
No, we don't.
We already got rid
of most of them.
There's only
a handful left.
Homeworld Command needs
the intel they're providing,
and in exchange
for that information,
they made a deal.
That Homeworld Command
doesn't have to live with,
but we do.
Then all the more reason
we should be showing
these people some respect.
You know, if you would
just take the time
to get to know them,
you'd realize that many
of them didn't have a choice
but to join the Alliance.
You know what,
I don't care.
And I'm going to be damned
if I risk the health
and welfare of people
aboard this ship
on marching orders
from the other side
of the universe.
And what about
the people back home?
Are you willing to
risk their lives instead?
Because that's what's
going to happen if you
renege on this deal.
Homeworld Command
has received confirmation
that the Lucian Alliance
is planning an attack
on Earth,
and it's quite possible
that these prisoners
have information
that could help
head off that attack.
Or they could be lying.
Yes, sure,
they could be,
but are you really willing
to take that chance?
Look, I understand.
These last few days
have been hard on you.
Camile, do me a favor.
Just watch what you say
to the prisoners.
We're planning a service
for Sergeant Riley
later this week.
I thought maybe
you'd want to say
a few words.
Of course.
So come on.
Chen? Ramirez?
That redheaded
civilian contractor
with the... Park.
Park?
Yeah. Remember
that hamstring injury
I said I got doing squats?
Yeah.
It wasn't doing squats.
You wanted to see me?
We checked, we re-checked,
and re-re-checked
just to be sure...
The seed ship has
sizable energy reserves.
How sizable?
With the output of
both capacitors in play,
enough to power the gate
and get us home.
In order for that
to happen,
I have to alter certain
conduits to open up
a transfer channel,
but that's not something
I can do from here.
Go.
What was that?
PARK: What?
We just lost
the Kino feed.
Ready, Eli.
Eli?
Yeah. Right. Right.
(DOOR UNLOCKS)
Dr. Rush, perfect timing.
You're going to want
to see this.
Okay, back in a flash.
Uh-huh. Wait. No,
where are you going?
Looks like
there's a malfunctioning
relay station one floor up.
I'm gonna see if I can
fix it, bring up that
dead console.
I'll warn you,
Lieutenant,
I tend to find surprises
particularly underwhelming.
Not this one, you won't.
Trust me.
Pretty darn cool, huh?
Yes. Of course.
This is where the stargates
were manufactured
before being transported
to the various planets.
Okay. Is that it?
Yeah, that's it.
Well, now we're done
with this little diversion,
could you escort me
to the Control Room?
(CHUCKLES)
Didn't take you long,
but there's still
more that...
Oh, my God.
I don't... I don't...
Please.
What the hell?
If you're not careful,
that cut's going to
open back up again.
I can't help it.
I like to play rough.
How about you?
(GRUNTS)
I got it.
Yeah, I do.
Do you think you
could handle me?
(SHUDDERS)
(BONES CRACKING)
No.
I didn't think so.
ON RADIO: Lieutenant Scott,
this is Volker.
Go ahead.
You might want to come back
to the Control Room.
You find something
interesting?
Well, yeah, actually.
Something interesting
found me.
JOHANSEN: Have a seat.
I'd like to take a look
at your wound.
Looks like it's
healing nicely.
Too bad. I was kind of
hoping for a manly scar.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry your child
couldn't be saved.
It's difficult to lose
someone you love.
I know.
My wife, Anthea,
three years ago.
She was on her way
back from the market,
when she was caught
in a rainstorm.
She ended up taking
refuge in a shelter.
It collapsed,
killing her
and six others.
I'm sorry.
She never liked me
being in the Alliance.
She thought
it was too dangerous.
I risked my life
time and again,
survived missions
that should have
killed me,
and yet she dies
doing something
as mundane as
getting caught
in the rain.
You felt guilty.
Guilty. Angry.
Despondent.
I was miserable,
until I came to
an understanding.
And what was that?
That life is loss.
YOUNG ON RADIO: T.J.?
(CLEARS THROAT) Sir?
Grab your med kit
and meet me at the airlock.
You're heading over
to the seed ship.
Is anyone hurt?
Not exactly.
According to Scott,
the alien is alive
but unresponsive.
How'd it even
get on the ship?
No idea.
Okay. I'll do my best.
You sure you don't
want me to use the stones,
bring someone else in?
No. Sir,
I want to do this.
All right.
I'm going with.
YOUNG: The lieutenant
already has an escort.
I'm tired of sitting
on the sidelines.
Put me in, coach.
Okay.
Eli.
(DOOR UNLOCKS)
Good luck. T.J.
I got it.
Hey.
You sure it's alive?
It's breathing.
GREER: At least
that's what we think
it's doing.
(GASPS)
SCOTT: Lieutenant?
I'm fine. I'm fine.
(SPEAKING ALIEN LANGUAGE)
Little help here, Rush?
Me?
You're the only one
with any experience
communicating with aliens.
Different aliens.
However, I think a good
first step might be to
lower your weapons.
Scott. Scott.
You? Understand?
No?
No.
Does anybody have
any food? Anybody?
Yeah. No, I've got
a piece of dried fruit
that I was saving for later.
Are you kidding?
That stuff's horrible.
It tastes like rambutan.
Tastes like crap.
What's rambutan?
It's sort of like
a longan.
Longan?
Are you...
Just give it here.
Mmm. Good.
What'd I say?
You know,
it may be wise to find out
whether or not it came alone.
He's right.
We should run a sweep.
You two
keep our guest company.
Each of you take a corridor.
Radio check-in, 10 minutes.
ON RADIO: Eli, this is
Dr. Rush. Come in.
Go ahead.
I'm initiating
the transfer.
I need you to isolate
the power and direct it
towards the gate.
It's working.
Power from both ships
is being transferred
directly to the gate.
GREER ON RADIO:
Colonel, Lieutenant.
Go ahead,
Master Sergeant.
Yeah, it seems that
the alien is not alone.
It's got friends,
and plenty of them.
WRAY ON PA: Very shortly,
we will be making
an attempt to dial Earth.
If a successful
connection is made,
we will need
to move quickly.
All crew members are to
proceed to the Gate Room
immediately.
Come again?
Greer has discovered
several more pods,
all empty,
suggesting there are more
of these things on board.
Well, how many more?
About a dozen.
Rush figures they
were a research team
who were dropped off
to do a long-term study
of the ship.
Well, let's get our
people out of there
before their ride
comes back
to pick them up.
Making our way to
the Control Room.
I want Rush
and the science team
back on the Destiny now.
Do you understand?
Yes, sir.
I can't leave just yet.
What is it now, Rush?
I should stay here in case
there's any interruption
to the power transfer.
We may only have
one shot at this.
Well, what's the situation
with the alien?
Docile. Not a threat.
You can't know that
for sure.
Colonel,
there's really no point
in arguing about this.
I have to stay here
to make sure this works.
All right, fine.
I'll send reinforcements.
I would advise
against that.
I'm sending them anyway.
Okay, I'll head back
once a stable wormhole
has been established.
All right.
Airman Dunning,
you're with Rush.
Everyone else fall back.
Go. Bring the alien.
Power buffers
are at optimum.
We're good to go.
BARNES: Commencing
dialing sequence.
YOUNG: People,
Homeworld Command is
expecting us. Here we go.
(DIALING GATE)
Bring the prisoners.
It's working.
The gate's dialing.
Let me know when you
secure the connection.
We're going home.
(POWERING DOWN)
What happened?
I don't know.
Eli? Eli?
The power transfer's
been interrupted. Hang on.
Rush? Rush,
what's happening?
I'm not sure,
but it appears that tapping
this ship's energy reserves
seems more problematical
than we thought.
(WEAPON FIRES)
Uh-oh.
Eli, what the hell
was that?
We've got a problem.
The energy transfer's
been reversed!
Dr. Rush,
did you hear that?
The seed ship has
begun drawing power
away from Destiny.
Dr. Rush?
Colonel Young,
we just lost contact
with Rush.
Dunning.
Dunning, are you there?
David, I need you to go
to the Control Room
and find out why Rush
isn't responding.
We're already
on our way.
T.J., Marsden, and the
science team are headed back
to Destiny with the alien.
Have you found
any more?
TELFORD: Not yet.
YOUNG: Talk to me, Eli.
The seed ship is still
drawing power away
from Destiny.
When the reserves are gone,
there's no getting them back.
Pretty soon, we won't even
be able to make an FTL jump.
So we can't stop it?
We're trying,
but nothing's working.
What if we disconnect
from the seed ship?
Yeah, that would sever
the power flow.
Unfortunately,
we have no idea
how to do that.
We've got to learn.
We've got to learn fast.
Colonel, this is T.J.
We lost the alien.
Copy that.
Check them.
GREER:
He's still breathing.
YOUNG ON RADIO: David.
We've found Rush and Dunning.
They're unconscious.
It doesn't look like
we'll be able to stop
the power transfer,
so our only option
is to sever the link
between the two ships.
We need you back here
in order to disconnect.
Negative.
This is our one shot
at getting home.
There's got to be a way
to reverse the transfer.
Eli's tried
and come up short.
Listen to me, David.
I want nothing more
than to get everyone
back home,
but I'm not willing to risk
anyone's life to do it.
Put Eli on.
Go on.
Colonel?
Is there a way to
reverse the transfer
from my end?
Eli?
Theoretically, yeah.
Yeah, it's possible.
Tell me what to do.
You need to find anything
that resembles a schematic
or an active display,
possibly indicative
of the power transfer.
Greer, Scott,
get those two
back to safety.
Sir, those aliens are
probably responsible
for what's happened.
If they come back here,
you will...
Go.
Go!
(DEVICE BLEEPS)
All right, I got it.
ELI: Okay, now,
I'm going to walk
you through this.
Forget walking.
Let's sprint.
I've got a basic knowledge
of Ancient systems.
Okay, you need
to access the ship's
distribution network.
How are we doing
for time?
PARK: Once we hit red,
we're at the point
of no return.
We have less than
15 minutes.
(DOOR BANGS SHUT)
We're locked out.
Wake up.
What the hell?
SCOTT: Forget it.
Keep moving.
(GRUNTS)
(DEVICE BLEEPS)
Eli, I'm done.
What's next?
Now you need to open
a secondary conduit.
BECKER:
It's not budging.
It's no use. We are cut off
from the Control Room.
Fall back.
All right,
you guys heard the man.
Let's fall back.
PARK:
Less than six minutes.
Are we any closer to finding
a way to disconnect
from the seed ship?
We need Rush.
Eli.
Lieutenant Scott.
Come in. We need Rush
in the Control Room now.
Dr. Rush?
He is gone, sir.
He's gone where?
I don't know.
Find him.
Look, there's no way
we're going to figure out
how to disconnect in time.
It's all up to
Colonel Telford.
Less than four minutes.
David, how's it coming?
Almost there.
Okay. Next?
Okay, now, all you have to do
is override the power relay
and just re-route it
back through the channel
you've just created.
Three minutes.
Almost there.
(RUMBLING)
(POWER SURGING)
What was that?
YOUNG: No idea.
Eli?
We just disconnected
from the seed ship.
Wait a minute.
I thought you said...
I didn't.
It wasn't me.
Well, then, how?
How?
I had no choice.
In order to save the crew?
Or did you do it
to save your dream?
Which was it, Nicholas?
David, we just
disconnected
from the seed ship
and we're about
to jump into FTL.
I'm sorry.
Can't blame me
for trying, right?
Yeah. Yeah.
Take care of those people.
And Everett,
take care of yourself.
Everett?
Destin are you there?
(RADIO STATIC)
(FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING)
(DOOR UNLOCKING)
I understand that you made
saving me a priority
after I was shot.
You didn't have to.
Of course I did.
Anyways, thank you.
* In the dark
it feels so real
* And all this time
we've been sleeping on it
* And who we are
* And what we're
going through
* All this time
spent saving for it
* Come so far
* Come so far, yeah
* So just let me know
when we get there
* If we get there
* Let me know
when we get there
* If we get there
English - US - Line 21